MACHINE LEARNING
ASSIGNMENT - 5
Q1 to Q15 are subjective answer type questions, Answer them briefly.
1. R-squared or Residual Sum of Squares (RSS) which one of these two is a better measure of 
goodness of fit model in regression and why?

R-squared is a better measure of goodness of fit of a regression model.Because it takes into consideration the average of the actual value and the error derived from the difference between the predicted and the actual value.

2. What are TSS (Total Sum of Squares), ESS (Explained Sum of Squares) and RSS (Residual Sum 
of Squares) in regression. Also mention the equation relating these three metrics with each other.

TSS is the sum total of the square of the difference between the predicted value and the actual value of the data.
RSS is the sume total of the square of the difference between the actual value and the average of the actual value.
ESS is the difference between the total sum of squares and residual sum of squares

total sum of squares (TSS) = explained sum of squares (ESS) + residual sum of squares (RSS).


3. What is the need of regularization in machine learning? 
Regularization refers to techniques that are used to calibrate machine learning models in order to minimize the adjusted loss function and prevent overfitting or underfitting.


4. What is Gini–impurity index? 
Gini Index or Gini impurity measures the degree or probability of a particular variable being wrongly classified when it is randomly chosen.
Gini Impurity is also a measurement used to build Decision Trees to determine how the features of a dataset should split nodes to form the tree.

5. Are unregularized decision-trees prone to overfitting? If yes, why? 
Decision trees are prone to overfitting.
This is due to the amount of specificity we look at leading to smaller sample of events that meet the previous assumptions. This small sample could lead to unsound conclusions.


6. What is an ensemble technique in machine learning? 
Ensemble methods are techniques that aim at improving the accuracy of results in models by combining multiple models instead of using a single model.
The combined models increase the accuracy of the results significantly.


7. What is the difference between Bagging and Boosting techniques? 
Bagging is a technique for reducing prediction variance by producing additional data for training from a dataset by combining repetitions with combinations to create multi-sets of the original data. 
Boosting is an iterative strategy for adjusting an observation's weight based on the previous classification.


8. What is out-of-bag error in random forests? 
Out-of-bag (OOB) error, also called out-of-bag estimate, is a method of measuring the prediction error of random forests, 
boosted decision trees, and other machine learning models utilizing bootstrap aggregating (bagging)


9. What is K-fold cross-validation? 
K-fold Cross-Validation is when the dataset is split into a K number of folds and is used to evaluate the model's ability when given new data. 
K refers to the number of groups the data sample is split into.


10. What is hyper parameter tuning in machine learning and why it is done? 
Hyperparameter tuning consists of finding a set of optimal hyperparameter values for a learning algorithm while applying this optimized algorithm to any data set. 
That combination of hyperparameters maximizes the model's performance, minimizing a predefined loss function to produce better results with fewer errors


11. What issues can occur if we have a large learning rate in Gradient Descent? 
In order for Gradient Descent to work, we must set the learning rate to an appropriate value. 
This parameter determines how fast or slow we will move towards the optimal weights. 
If the learning rate is very large we will skip the optimal solution


12. Can we use Logistic Regression for classification of Non-Linear Data? If not, why?

Non-linear problems can't be solved with logistic regression because it has a linear decision surface.

13. Differentiate between Adaboost and Gradient Boosting.
AdaBoost is the first designed boosting algorithm with a particular loss function. 
On the other hand, Gradient Boosting is a generic algorithm that assists in searching the approximate solutions to the additive modelling problem. 
This makes Gradient Boosting more flexible than AdaBoost


14. What is bias-variance trade off in machine learning?
Bias is the simplifying assumptions made by the model to make the target function easier to approximate. 
Variance is the amount that the estimate of the target function will change given different training data. 
Trade-off is tension between the error introduced by the bias and the variance


15. Give short description each of Linear, RBF, Polynomial kernels used in SVM

Linear Kernel is used when the data is Linearly separable, that is, it can be separated using a single Line. 
It is one of the most common kernels to be used. 
It is mostly used when there are a Large number of Features in a particular Data Set.

Radial basis function kernel, or RBF kernel, is a popular kernel function used in various kernelized learning algorithms. 
In particular, it is commonly used in support vector machine classification.

polynomial kernel is a kernel function commonly used with support vector machines (SVMs) and other kernelized models, 
that represents the similarity of vectors (training samples) in a feature space over polynomials of the original variables, 
allowing learning of non-linear models.